Good morning.
I'm Justin Garcia, and I work on the iOS
keyboards and text team.
And before we get started,
I'd like to say thank you.
I've had a chance to meet
some of you this week,
and I've seen some of the amazing things
that you guys have been working on,
and it's been both
inspiring and humbling.
So again, thank you.
So what are we talking about today?
Well, today's about four things.
First,
today's about getting rid of markup.
No, not for you, for your users.
I went to Blogger.com a few days ago and
used their rich text editing toolbar.
And when you use their
rich text editing toolbar,
it inserts tags.
It's 2011,
and end users are still seeing tags.
Wikipedia does this too.
So today is about getting
rid of markup for users.
We shouldn't be
subjecting people to this.
Well, what are we going to do instead?
Well,
we're going to build a WYSIWYG editor.
But what is it that users want to see,
and what is it that users want to edit?
What kind of text?
Well, they want to edit the kind of
text that they see in print books,
the kind of text that they read.
So topography is important.
Number three,
you saw it on Monday in the demo,
and you want it in your app.
Talking about rich text editing,
but we're talking about
more than just bold,
italic, and underline.
We're talking about any arbitrary
DOM operation or CSS text effect
that you can dream up in your app.
And four, we're talking about a
desktop caliber experience.
What does that mean?
Well, iMovie for iPad,
the new Photos app for iPad and iPhone,
where you can edit your photos.
These are desktop caliber
experiences for the iPad.
That's what we want to build today.
So how are we going to do this?
Well, first let's look at some
examples from the desktop.
These are desktop text editors,
and this is what we
want to strive towards.
This is Google Docs running in Safari.
This is a full-fledged,
powerful text editor that coincidentally
uses the same technology that
we're talking about here today.
It uses WebKit's editability features.
On top of that, Sandbox by Corellia.
And this is a website and blogging tool.
Both of these are great examples.
So what's the feature
set that we want to have?
Well, it all starts, of course,
with beautiful typography.
We're going to have multi-styled text.
Multiple columns, custom backgrounds,
anything that you're used to
building into your page layouts,
we're going to have in our editor.
transparency, draggable images,
and of course, HTML export.
So here's what we're going to build.
This is a picture of the native app.
And we'll talk about that in the
second part of the presentation.
The first part will be about
building a web application.
So what are the alternatives?
What can we use besides
WebKit before we get started?
Well, Mobile Notes uses a UI text view.
This is one option you have on iOS,
but it's not very powerful.
You can have style text,
but you can only have a single style.
Of course, it doesn't support HTML,
JavaScript, CSS,
so the page layouts are very basic.
And there's no HTML export.
Second option is to build your own
custom text layout engine on iOS that
implements the UI text input protocol.
I've seen many developers
do this using Cortex.
But as web developers,
you want to leverage
What you know to build beautiful
page layouts for your customers,
instead of learning core text.
So this is what we're going to do.
We're going to use the
new features in iOS,
the new WebKit editing features in iOS,
to build this editor.
First,
we're going to build a web application.
And then second,
we're going to embed that web application
into a UIWebView to build a native app.
And both of these are standalone options.
So before we dive into
the code of the web app,
Let me give you a quick demo.
So here it is running in mobile Safari.
Two column layout.
I place the cursor up in the title,
and it has single line enforcement.
So I'm hitting Return,
and it's just like a single
line text field on iOS for
those iOS developers out there.
And right now,
there's only a single control
in the toolbar for bold.
But we're going to add
more in just a moment.
Select some text here.
All my edits are saved
automatically as I enter characters.
[Transcript missing]
So the new content editable
DOM attribute in iOS 5,
you can add to any element in
your document to make it editable.
And we'll see that in a moment.
You can position the
cursor programmatically
with window.getSelection.
to guide the user through the document.
You're gonna use the new exec command
on document to perform arbitrary
DOM operations in CSS text effects.
You're going to validate editing
UI with query command enabled.
and you're gonna have print caliber
topography with two new CSS attributes,
excuse me,
two new CSS properties in iOS 5.
You can validate and format input
using JavaScript event handlers.
And we're going to save user edits on key
up in my demo using an XML HTTP request.
So content editable,
what does this look like?
It's really simple.
You can either add it to the document
element to make everything editable,
or you can create editable pockets by
adding it individually to elements.
We're going to position the
selection programmatically to guide
the user through the document using
the window.getSelection method.
Here I am setting it in the
editable div that I just created.
Here's my toolbar with two extra buttons.
Create link and highlight.
We'll talk about how to
implement those in a moment.
And these all use exec command.
So here's Bold being
implemented using exec command.
It's pretty simple.
Here's Create Link.
And all these exec commands are undoable.
is going to point you to documentation
that lists all the exact commands
at the end of the presentation.
So validating UI.
I want a bold button that looks
depressed when you're in bold text,
and is undepressed when
you're not in bold text.
How do we do that?
Well,
we're gonna use query command enabled,
and pass it the editing operation
that we're interested in.
So I talked about improved
typography features in iOS 5.
Here's a text example without
ligatures and kerning.
You can see that the i,
the dot over the i,
runs into the top of the f.
We apply this new CSS property.
We get some tightening.
We get a ligature for FI.
And that's really simple.
You just use text rendering
optimized legibility.
So what's wrong with this?
Well, this is justified text.
And in a print book,
you'd have hyphenation to
improve the spacing between
the words and that second line.
And we can get that in WebKit using the
new CSS auto-hyphenation for English.
And here's the finished result.
And this is just WebKit hyphens auto.
So you may have seen
drop caps in the demo.
This isn't new to iOS 5.
But you might be interested
in how I implemented that.
You just use the first letters,
CSS pseudo element.
So how did I do that
single line validation?
I kept the title and the date
from accepting new lines.
I'll just check to see if the
element is a title or a date.
I verified that the user
isn't inserting a new line.
It's pretty simple.
called that element, or excuse me,
I called that function on every key down.
Now you noticed that I reloaded the
page and the user edits were saved.
How did I do that?
Well, there are a couple different
ways of doing this.
I chose to use an XML HTTP request,
and I send the entire source
of the document to my PHP file.
And this works pretty well, but
You'd like to be able to do this when the
user doesn't have an internet connection.
You'd like to be able to do this offline.
So you should go and check out
Alexei's talk this afternoon on HTML5
offline storage if you're interested.
So let's dive into the code.
So this was my original.
I'm going to open up
my uneditable document.
to quickly add contenteditable
equals true to the elements that
I'm interested in making editable.
Let me just reload the page.
And here we go.
Let's add two more editing
controls to the toolbar.
Let's add Create Link and Highlight.
Nice.
So here we have two
more editing operations.
Let's add the exec commands for those.
Create link and highlight.
Now you've noticed, you may have noticed,
that highlight doesn't use
exec command highlight.
There's no such exec
command for highlight.
So I've used italic.
And then I'll go into my CSS and
change the default style for italic.
Let's reload the page.
Nice.
Let's select San Francisco.
And let's highlight.
There you go,
you get a nice orange highlight.
So let's do single line enforcement.
Because you notice that if I hit return,
I get a carriage return.
I showed you the code earlier.
It just verifies that the inserted
character isn't a new line.
Reload the page.
And I'm hitting return,
and it's a single line.
And you may have noticed that we
have some really dirty looking
justified text down here.
There's huge spaces between these words,
spots, Grimeer, and let's fix this with
WebKit hyphens auto.
And let's dismiss the
keyboard so it doesn't crash.
And there it is.
It's all cleaned up.
Real nice.
So what's next?
So I've hand-rolled this editor.
I wrote my own JavaScript.
But if you don't want to do that,
there are two very excellent
JavaScript editing libraries
with cross-browser support,
TinyMCE and CKEditor.
and the authors of these two
JavaScript libraries have been
excellent contributors to WebKit,
our open source WebKit engine.
So now we're going to embed this
web application into a native app,
and get this beautiful native experience
with a customized editing call-out bar
instead of a JavaScript CSS toolbar.
So let's do that.
[Transcript missing]
I'm using the native call-out bar.
And here are my three
editing operations-- bold,
highlight, and create link.
So let's talk about how we
did this at a high level.
So we leveraged the
entire web application.
We embed it in a UIWebView.
And then we extend the system editing
menu instead of using a CSS toolbar.
And in your native application,
you can use native UI widgets,
like sliders, to adjust the font size.
A native application is going to let
you import photos from a user's device,
and images can become draggable.
So embedding the web application
into a UIWebView is pretty simple.
Here I just grabbed
my application bundle.
I get the index file that you saw us
working on in the web application,
and I load it into the UIWebView.
So now we're going to extend
that system editing menu.
So I build a UI menu item.
I give it a bold selector.
I add this to an array.
And then I add,
and then I set UI menu controllers
menu items property to that array.
What's the code for the
bold selector look like?
How do we perform document.exec
command from a WebView,
UIWebView, excuse me?
Well,
we use string by evaluating JavaScript.
We pass it arbitrary
JavaScript to execute.
And then we've got to
validate that bold item.
Some fields, for instance,
might not accept bold.
Here's how you do that.
I talked about UI widgets.
Here I am using a slider
to adjust the font size.
I grab the slider, I get its value.
I determine a font size on the range,
max font size to min font size.
And then I set the font
size of the body element,
again using string by
evaluating JavaScript.
So importing photos from a user's device.
I've added a button to send the
user to their iPhoto library.
I insert it with this method,
insert image.
And I build a div around the image,
and then I insert it with insert HTML,
the insert HTML exec command.
And then I perform that exec command
using string by evaluating JavaScript.
Now I call insert image from
image picker controller did
finish picking media with info.
I verify that what the user chose
was an image and not a movie.
I get the image, I write it to file,
and then I insert it with the
method that I just showed you.
Now, what about draggable images?
So first, we perform touch tracking
at the app level.
Then we send that touch
coordinate to the web application,
again using string by
evaluating JavaScript.
In order to find the DOM location
where we want to insert the image,
we call caret_range for point.
We pass it a coordinate.
Then we created a DOM range to
create a selection object so that
exec command can be performed.
We remove the image from its old
location using exec command delete,
and then we reinsert
it using insert HTML.
And all of this is undoable,
so the user can undo a drag.
So let's look at some
of the native app code.
Here I am in my UIWebView subclass.
And I've implemented Bold, Highlight,
and Create Link,
and these all perform exec
command operations using string
by evaluating JavaScript.
Create Link is a little trickier,
So it calls an operation that
I've implemented in my web
application called Create Link.
So here I am validating each menu item,
bold, highlight, and create link.
So for more information on exec commands,
check out Mozilla's documentation.
And if you don't find what
you're looking for there,
or on Apple Developer Forums,
email Vicki Murley, our Internet and
Web Technologies Evangelist.
The text processing that we
did today was very basic.
If you're interested in learning more,
you want to check out Doug Davidson's
talk this afternoon at 3:15.
Internationalization is a
big topic for a text editor.
So you're gonna wanna check out
Brent's talk tomorrow at 10.
And if you're interested in
embedding the web application into
a UIWebView to build a native app,
you want to check out
What's New in Cocoa Touch.
That's today at 4:30.
So we talked about why you should
use WebKit-based rich text editing.
You learned how to get started,
and how to take the next steps.
Thank you.